README.md, before:

# atom-time-tracer

Atomatic time tracking powered by any command line tool (default is [watson](http://tailordev.github.io/Watson/)) for Atom.
No more forgetting to start the timer!

## Features

- you choose what time tracking tool is used in the background
- global and project specific configuration options
- use the power of NodeJS to fully customize command arguments
- starts tracking time automatically when you work in Atom
- stops tracking time when you're inactive in Atom
- [ ] stops tracking when your machine goes to sleep
- upon Atom window switch tracking is also switched from the previous project to the current window's one
- check your stats
    - overall in the status bar
    - by day and tag using the `report` command

## Installation

```bash
apm install time-tracer
# on macOS (see https://tailordev.github.io/Watson/#installation for more details)
brew install watson
```

## Usage

This package tracks your interactions in Atom.
Whenever you do something actively a timer is started.
The timer stops if you haven't done anything in a while.

Since everything is configurable you can use this package with any time
tracking tool you want.
Most of the configuration is done in Atom's settings panel.
But project-specific settings can be defined in a `timetracer.config.js` file.
See section [Configuration](#timetracer.config.js) for more details.

### Status bar

Unless disabled, there is a status bar tile which shows a watch and the time until the timer
will be stopped (using a mini pie chart).
On hover the time spent on the project is displayed (days mean work days - the amount of hours per work day can be configured).
On click a chart is displayed showing how much you worked on what tags.

![Status bar tile screenshot](./img/status-bar-tile.png)

## Configuration

### Atom settings

See the [config](https://github.com/jneuendorf/atom-time-tracer/blob/master/src/config.js) for details.

### `timetracer.config.js`

This file can and should be used to add/overwrite project specific settings.
All keys of the Atom settings may be overwritten.
See the [example config file](https://github.com/jneuendorf/atom-time-tracer/blob/master/timetracer.config.js).

Additionally, the `name` and `tags` properties may be defined.
`name` equals `%project` (default is all project folder names joined by `__`) and `tags` equals `%tags` (default `[]`) in the command settings.

Since the config file is a JS file you can dynamically generate tags.
You could for example use the staged files as tags to see how long you've approximately worked on certain files.

## Thanks to

- [Akuma901](https://github.com/Akuma901) and his [time tracker](https://github.com/Akuma901/atom-time-tracker)
  for inspiration for the status bar tile

Commit message:

added automatic tracking stop upon machine sleep

README.md, after:

# atom-time-tracer

Atomatic time tracking powered by any command line tool (default is [watson](http://tailordev.github.io/Watson/)) for Atom.
Never again forget starting or stopping the timer!

## Features

- you choose what time tracking tool is used in the background
- global and project specific configuration options
- use the power of NodeJS to fully customize command arguments
- starts tracking time automatically when you work in Atom
- stops tracking time when you're inactive in Atom
- stops tracking when your machine goes to sleep
    - currently only macOS is supported without any extra work (see [Installation](#installation))
- upon Atom window switch tracking is also switched from the previous project to the current window's one
- check your stats
    - overall in the status bar
    - by day and tag using the `report` command

## Installation

```bash
apm install time-tracer
# on macOS (see https://tailordev.github.io/Watson/#installation for more details)
brew install watson
```

If you're not on macOS and want to enable automatically stop tracking
when your machine goes to sleep, you have to install a command line tool
of your choice on your user's shell `$PATH` and add the tool's name to the
`sleep watcher` setting.

## Usage

This package tracks your interactions in Atom.
Whenever you do something actively a timer is started.
The timer stops if you haven't done anything in a while.

Since everything is configurable you can use this package with any time
tracking tool you want.
Most of the configuration is done in Atom's settings panel.
But project-specific settings can be defined in a `timetracer.config.js` file.
See section [Configuration](#timetracer.config.js) for more details.

### Status bar

Unless disabled, there is a status bar tile which shows a watch and the time until the timer
will be stopped (using a mini pie chart).
On hover the time spent on the project is displayed (days mean work days - the amount of hours per work day can be configured).
On click a chart is displayed showing how much you worked on what tags.

![Status bar tile screenshot](./img/status-bar-tile.png)

## Configuration

### Atom settings

See the [config](https://github.com/jneuendorf/atom-time-tracer/blob/master/src/config.js) for details.

### `timetracer.config.js`

This file can and should be used to add/overwrite project specific settings.
All keys of the Atom settings may be overwritten.
See the [example config file](https://github.com/jneuendorf/atom-time-tracer/blob/master/timetracer.config.js).

Additionally, the `name` and `tags` properties may be defined.
`name` equals `%project` (default is all project folder names joined by `__`) and `tags` equals `%tags` (default `[]`) in the command settings.

Since the config file is a JS file you can dynamically generate tags.
You could for example use the staged files as tags to see how long you've approximately worked on certain files.

## Thanks to

- [Akuma901](https://github.com/Akuma901) and his [time tracker](https://github.com/Akuma901/atom-time-tracker)
  for inspiration for the status bar tile
